[A&E] Refine query languages intro, ESQL and Query DSL (#306)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/query-filter.md

You can use {{es}} as a basic document store to retrieve documents and their metadata. However, the real power of {{es}} comes from its advanced search and analytics capabilities.

## Querying

You’ll use a combination of an API endpoint and a query language to interact with your data.

- Elasticsearch provides a number of [query languages](/explore-analyze/query-filter/languages.md). From Query DSL to the newest ES|QL, find the one that's most appropriate for you.

- You can call Elasticsearch's REST APIs by submitting requests directly from the command line or through the Dev Tools [Console](/explore-analyze/query-filter/tools/console.md) in {{kib}}. From your applications, you can use a [client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/index.md) in your programming language of choice.

- A number of [tools](/explore-analyze/query-filter/tools.md) are available for you to save, debug, and optimize your queries.

% todo: update link to the best target

> % > If you're just getting started with Elasticsearch, check [first steps with Elasticsearch](/solutions/search/get-started.md) for a hands-on example of using the `_search` endpoint, adding data to {{es}}, and running basic searches in Query DSL syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're just getting started with Elasticsearch, try the [API quickstart](/solutions/search/elasticsearch-basics-quickstart.md) for a hands-on example of using the `_search` endpoint, adding data to {{es}}, and running basic searches in Query DSL syntax.
```

Reviewer: might need to merge main for this to work
